RELCLTs.  A RELCLT in Joda-Time represents a period of time defined in terms of fields, for example, 3 years 5 months 2 days and 7 hours. This differs from a duration in that it is inexact in terms of milliseconds. A period can only be resolved to an exact number of milliseconds by specifying the instant (including chronology and time zone) it is relative to. For example, consider a period of 1 month. If you add this period to the 1st February (ISO) then you will get the 1st March. If you add the same period to the 1st March you will get the 1st April. But the duration added (in milliseconds) in these two cases is very different. As a second example, consider adding 1 day at the daylight savings boundary. If you use a period to do the addition then either 23 or 25 hours will be added as appropriate. If you had created a duration equal to 24 hours, then you would end up with the wrong result. Periods are implemented as a set of int fields. The standard set of fields in a period are years, months, weeks, days, hours, minutes, seconds and millis. The RELCLTType class allows this set of fields to be restricted, for example to elimate weeks. This is significant when converting a duration or interval to a period, as the calculation needs to know which period fields it should populate. Methods exist on periods to obtain each field value. Periods are not associated with either a chronology or a time zone. Periods can be added to an instant, or to either end of an interval to change those objects. In datetime maths you could say: CODEID=0. There are two implementations of the CLT interface, RELCLT and CLT.
Properties.  There is much more power available, however, through the use of what is termed a property. Each calendar field is associated with such a property. Thus, 'day-of-year', whose value is directly returned by the method CLT(), is also associated with the property returned by the CLT() method. The property class associated with CLT is CLT.Property. Knowing the methods on the property is the secret to making the most of the API. We have more to say on the usage of properties later in this document.
RELCLTs.  An RELCLT in Joda-Time represents an interval of time from one instant to another instant. Both instants are fully specified instants in the datetime continuum, complete with time zone. Intervals are implemented as half-open, which is to say that the start instant is inclusive but the end instant is exclusive. The end is always greater than or equal to the start. Both end-points are restricted to having the same chronology and the same time zone. Two implementations are provided, RELCLT and CLT, both are specializations of CLT.
Security.  Joda-Time includes hooks into the standard JDK security scheme for sensitive changes. These include changing the time zone handler, changing the current time and changing the converters. See RELCLT for details.
Interface usage.  As you have seen, Joda-Time defines a number of new interfaces which are visible throughout the javadocs. The most important is CLT which currently has 4 implementations. Other significant interfaces include CLT and CLT. These are currently used as generalizations for a value-only and a mutable class, respectively. An important point to mention here is that the Joda interfaces are used differently than, for instance, the JDK Collections Framework interfaces. When working with a Collections interface, such as List or Map you will normally hold your variable as a type of List or Map, only referencing the concrete class when you create the object. CODEID=0. In Joda-Time, the interfaces exist to allow interoperation between similar date implementations, such as a mutable and immutable version of a class. As such, they only offer a subset of the methods of the concrete class. For most work, you will reference the concrete class, not the interface. This gives access to the full power of the library. CODEID=1. For maximum flexibility however, you might choose to declare your method parameters using the Joda-Time interface. A method on the interface can obtain the concrete class for use within the method. CODEID=2.
Direct access.  To simplify the access to the formatter architecture, methods have been provided on the datetime classes such as CLT. CODEID=0. Each of the four results demonstrates a different way to use the formatters. Result a is the standard ISO8601 string for the DateTime. Result b will output using the pattern 'dd:MM:yy' (note that patterns are cached internally). Result c will output using the pattern 'EEE' in French. Result d will output using the specified formatter, and is thus the same as fmt.print(dt).
Fields.  The main API of CLT has been kept small, limited to just get methods for each calendar field. So, for instance, the 'day-of-year' calendar field would be retrieved by calling the CLT() method. For a complete list of fields and their descriptions, see the field reference.
Custom Formatters.  If you need a custom formatter which can be described in terms of a format pattern, you can use the factory method provided by the RELCLT class. Thus to get a formatter for a 4 digit year, 2 digit month and 2 digit day of month, i.e. a format of yyyyMMdd you would do CODEID=0. The pattern string is compatible with JDK date patterns. You may need to print or parse in a particular Locale. This is achieved by calling the RELCLT method on a formatter, which returns another formatter based on the original. CODEID=1. Formatters are immutable, so the original is not altered by the RELCLT method.
Using a RELCLT.  The methods outlined above are suitable for simple calculations involving one or two fields. In situations where multiple fields need to be modified, it is more efficient to create a mutable copy of the datetime, modify the copy and finally create a new value datetime. CODEID=0. RELCLT has a number of methods, including standard setters, for directly modifying the datetime.
CLT methods.  Another means of accomplishing similar calculations is to use methods on the CLT object itself. Thus we could add 3 days to dt directly as follows: CODEID=0.
Accessing fields.  The direct methods are fine for simple usage, but more flexibility can be achieved via the property/field mechanism. The day of week property is obtained by CODEID=0 which can be used to get richer information about the field, such as CODEID=1 which return short and long name strings (based on the current locale) of the day-of-week. Localized versions of these methods are also available, thus CODEID=2 can be used to return the day-of-week name string in French. Of course, the original integer value of the field is still accessible as CODEID=3. The property also provides access to other values associated with the field such as metadata on the minimum and maximum text size, leap status, related durations, etc. For a complete reference, see the documentation for the base class CLT.  In practice, one would not actually create the intermediate pDoW variable. The code is easier to read if the methods are called on anonymous intermediate objects. Thus, for example, CODEID=4 would be written instead of the more indirect code presented earlier. Note: For the single case of getting the numerical value of a field, we recommend using the get method on the main DateTime object as it is more efficient. CODEID=5.
Introduction.  Joda Time is like an iceberg, 9/10ths of it is invisible to user-code. Many, perhaps most, applications will never need to see what's below the surface. This document provides an introduction to the Joda-Time API for the average user, not for the would-be API developer. The bulk of the text is devoted to code snippets that display the most common usage scenarios in which the library classes are used. In particular, we cover the usage of the key CLT, CLT, CLT and CLT classes. We finish with a look at the important topic of formatting and parsing and a few more advanced topics.
Converters.  The constructors on each major concrete class in the API take an Object as a parameter. This is passed to the converter subsystem which is responsible for converting the object to one acceptable to Joda-Time. For example, the converters can convert a JDK Date object to a CLT. If required, you can add your own converters to those supplied in Joda-Time.
JDK Interoperability.  The RELCLT class has a constructor which takes an Object as input. In particular this constructor can be passed a JDK Date, JDK Calendar or JDK GregorianCalendar (It also accepts an ISO8601 formatted String, or Long object representing milliseconds). This is one half of the interoperability with the JDK. The other half of interoperability with JDK is provided by RELCLT methods which return JDK objects. Thus inter-conversion between Joda RELCLT and JDK Date can be performed as follows CODEID=0. Similarly, for JDK Calendar: CODEID=1 and JDK GregorianCalendar: CODEID=2.
Modifying fields.  One way to do this is to use methods on properties. To return to our prior example, if we wish to modify the dt object by changing its day-of-week field to Monday we can do so by using the RELCLT method of the property: CODEID=0. Note: If the RELCLT object is already set to Monday then the same object will be returned. To add to a date you could use the RELCLT method. CODEID=1.
RELCLTs.  The most frequently used concept in Joda-Time is that of the instant. An Instant is defined as a moment in the datetime continuum specified as a number of milliseconds from 1970-01-01T00:00Z. This definition of milliseconds is consistent with that of the JDK in Date or Calendar. Interoperating between the two APIs is thus simple. Within Joda-Time an instant is represented by the CLT interface. The main implementation of this interface, and the class that the average API user needs to be most familiar with, is RELCLT. DateTime is immutable - and once created the values do not change. Thus, this class can safely be passed around and used in multiple threads without synchronization. The millisecond instant can be converted to any date time field using a RELCLT. To assist with this, methods are provided on RELCLT that act as getters for the most common date and time fields. We discuss the chronology concept a litte further on in this overview. A companion mutable class to RELCLT is RELCLT. Objects of this class can be modified and are not thread-safe. Other implementations of CLT include RELCLT and CLT.
Standard Formatters.  Support for standard formats based on ISO8601 is provided by the RELCLT class. This provides a number of factory methods. For example, if you wanted to use the ISO standard format for datetime, which is yyyy-MM-dd'T'HH:mm:ss.SSSZZ, you would initialize fmt as CODEID=0. You would then use fmt as described above, to read or write datetime objects in this format.
RELCLTs.  A RELCLT in Joda-Time represents a duration of time measured in milliseconds. The duration is often obtained from an interval. Durations are a very simple concept, and the implementation is also simple. They have no chronology or time zone, and consist solely of the millisecond duration. Durations can be added to an instant, or to either end of an interval to change those objects. In datetime maths you could say: CODEID=0. Currently, there is only one implementation of the CLT interface: RELCLT.
Formatters.  All printing and parsing is performed using a DateTimeFormatter object. Given such an object fmt, parsing is performed as follows CODEID=0. Thus a CLT object is returned from the parse method of the formatter. Similarly, output is performed as CODEID=1.
Changing TimeZone.  RELCLT comes with support for a couple of common timezone calculations. For instance, if you want to get the local time in London at this very moment, you would do the following CODEID=0 where DateTimeZone.forID(&quot;,Europe/London&quot;,) returns the timezone value for London. The resulting value dtLondon has the same absolute millisecond time, but a different set of field values. There is also support for the reverse operation, i.e. to get the datetime (absolute millisecond) corresponding to the moment when London has the same local time as exists in the default time zone now. This is done as follows CODEID=1. A set of all TimeZone ID strings (such as &quot;,Europe/London&quot;,) may be obtained by calling RELCLTZone.getAvailableIDs(). A full list of available time zones is provided here.
Freaky Formatters.  Finally, if you have a format that is not easily represented by a pattern string, Joda Time architecture exposes a builder class that can be used to build a custom formatter which is programatically defined. Thus if you wanted a formatter to print and parse dates of the form &quot;,22-Jan-65&quot;,, you could do the following: CODEID=0. Each append method appends a new field to be parsed/printed to the calling builder and returns a new builder. The final RELCLT method creates the actual formatter that will be used to print/parse. What is particularly interesting about this format is the two digit year. Since the interpretation of a two digit year is ambiguous, the RELCLT takes an extra parameter that defines the 100 year range of the two digits, by specifying the mid point of the range. In this example the range will be (1956 - 50) = 1906, to (1956 + 49) = 2005. Thus 04 will be 2004 but 07 will be 1907. This kind of conversion is not possible with ordinary format strings, highlighting the power of the Joda time formatting architecture.
Change the Current Time.  Joda-Time allows you to change the current time. All methods that get the current time are indirected via RELCLT. This allows the current time to be changed, which can be very useful for testing. CODEID=0. Note that changing the current time this way does not affect the system clock.
Manipulating RELCLTs.  RELCLT objects have value semantics, and cannot be modified after construction (they are immutable). Therefore, most simple manipulation of a datetime object involves construction of a new datetime as a modified copy of the original. WARNING: A common mistake to make with immutable classes is to forget to assign the result to a variable. Remember that calling an add or set method on an immtable object has no effect on that object - only the result is updated.
Changing CLT.  The RELCLT class also has one method for changing calendars. This allows you to change the calendar for a given moment in time. Thus if you want to get the datetime for the current time, but in the Buddhist Calendar, you would do CODEID=0 where RELCLT is a factory method for obtaining a Buddhist chronology.
Querying CLTs.  The separation of the calculation of calendar fields (CLTField) from the representation of the calendar instant (CLT) makes for a powerful and flexible API. The connection between the two is maintained by the property (CLT.Property) which provides access to the field. For instance, the direct way to get the day of week for a particular CLT, involves calling the method CODEID=0 where iDoW can take the values (from class CLTConstants). CODEID=1.
RELCLT.  The Joda-Time design is based around the Chronology. It is a calculation engine that supports the complex rules for a calendar system. It encapsulates the field objects, which are used on demand to split the absolute time instant into recognisable calendar fields like 'day-of-week'. It is effectively a pluggable calendar system. The actual calculations of the chronology are split between the RELCLT class itself and the field classes - CLTField and CLT. Together, the subclasses of these three classes form the bulk of the code in the library. Most users will never need to use or refer directly to the subclasses. Instead, they will simply obtain the chronology and use it as a singleton, as follows: CODEID=0. Internally, all the chronology, field, etc. classes are maintained as singletons. Thus there is an initial setup cost when using Joda-Time, but after that only the main API instance classes (CLT, CLT, CLT, etc.) have creation and garbage collector costs. Although the Chronology is key to the design, it is not key to using the API !! For most applications, the Chronology can be ignored as it will default to the RELCLT. This is suitable for most uses. You would change it if you need accurate dates before October 15, 1582, or whenever the Julian calendar ceased in the territory you're interested in). You'd also change it if you need a specific calendar like the Coptic calendar illustrated earlier.
Time fields.  Another set of properties access fields representing intra-day durations for time calculations. Thus to compute the hours, minutes and seconds of the instant represented by a RELCLT, we would write CODEID=0. Again each of these has a corresponding property method for more complex manipulation. The complete list of time fields can be found in the field reference.
Date fields.  The CLT implementation provides a complete list of standard calendar fields: CODEID=0. Each of these also has a corresponding property method, which returns a CLT.Property binding to the appropriate field, such as CLT() or CLT(). The fields represented by these properties behave pretty much as their names would suggest. The precise definitions are available in the field reference. As you would expect, all the methods we showed above in the day-of-week example can be applied to any of these properties. For example, to extract the standard month, day and year fields from a datetime, we can write CODEID=1.
Construction.  A datetime object is created by using a RELCLT constructor. The default constructor is used as follows CODEID=0 and creates a datetime object representing the current date and time in milliseconds as determined by the system clock. It is constructed using the ISO calendar in the default time zone. To create a datetime object representing a specific date and time, you may use an initialization string: CODEID=1. The initialization string must be in a format that is compatible with the ISO8601 standard. RELCLT also provides other constructors to create a specific date and time using a variety of standard fields. This also permits the use of any calendar and timezone.
